---
title: "Eigenmodes of the brain: revisiting connectomics and geometry"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-04-20
excerpt: "A commentary showing that when connectomes are constructed with appropriate methods, connectome-derived eigenmodes explain brain activity as well as geometric eigenmodes, challenging claims that cortical geometry is inherently the stronger constraint."
date: 2024-04-20
venue: "bioRxiv"
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.04.16.589843'
citation: 'Mansour L, Sina, et al. &quot;Eigenmodes of the brain: revisiting connectomics and geometry.&quot; <i>bioRxiv preprint</i>.'
---

[Article available from here.](https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.04.16.589843)

## Abstract:

Eigenmodes can be derived from various structural brain properties, including cortical surface geometry1 and interareal axonal connections comprising an organisms connectome2. Pang and colleagues map geometric and connectome eigenmodes to spatial patterns of human brain activity, assessing whether brain connectivity or geometry provide greater explanatory power of brain function3. The authors find that geometric eigenmodes are superior predictors of cortical activity compared to connectome eigenmodes. They conclude that this supports the predictions of neural field theory (NFT)4, in that "brain activity is best represented in terms of eigenmodes derived directly from the shape of the cortex, thus emphasizing a fundamental role of geometry in constraining dynamics". The experimental comparisons favoring geometric eigenmodes over connectome eigenmodes, in conjunction with specific statements regarding the relative efficacy of geometry in representing brain activity, have been widely interpreted to mean that geometry imposes stronger constraints on cortical dynamics than connectivity5-9. Here, we reconsider the comparative experimental evidence focusing on the impact of connectome mapping methodology. Utilizing established methods to mitigate connectome construction limitations, we map new connectomes for the same dataset, finding that eigenmodes derived from these connectomes reach comparable accuracy in explaining brain activity to that of geometric eigenmodes. We conclude that the evidence presented to support the comparative proposition that "eigenmodes derived from brain geometry represent a more fundamental anatomical constraint on dynamics than the connectome" may require reconsideration in light of our findings. Pang and colleagues present compelling evidence for the important role of geometric constraints on brain function, but their findings should not be interpreted to mean that geometry has superior explanatory power over the connectome.
