---
title: "Topological cluster statistic (TCS): Toward structural connectivity–guided fMRI cluster enhancement"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-10-01
excerpt: "A paper introducing a structural-connectivity–guided clustering method (TCS) that boosts task-fMRI detection power by integrating diffusion-derived anatomical information into standard inference."
date: 2024-10-01
venue: "Network Neuroscience"
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1162/netn_a_00375'
citation: 'Mansour L, Sina, et al. "Topological cluster statistic (TCS): Toward structural connectivity–guided fMRI cluster enhancement." Network Neuroscience 8.3 (2024): 902-925.'
---

[Article available from here.](https://doi.org/10.1162/netn_a_00375)

## Abstract:

Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies most commonly use cluster-based inference to detect local changes in brain activity. Insufficient statistical power and disproportionate false-positive rates reportedly hinder optimal inference. We propose a structural connectivity–guided clustering framework, called topological cluster statistic (TCS), that enhances sensitivity by leveraging white matter anatomical connectivity information. TCS harnesses multimodal information from diffusion tractography and functional imaging to improve task fMRI activation inference. Compared to conventional approaches, TCS consistently improves power over a wide range of effects. This improvement results in a 10%–50% increase in local sensitivity with the greatest gains for medium-sized effects. TCS additionally enables inspection of underlying anatomical networks and thus uncovers knowledge regarding the anatomical underpinnings of brain activation. This novel approach is made available in the PALM software to facilitate usability. Given the increasing recognition that activation reflects widespread, coordinated processes, TCS provides a way to integrate the known structure underlying widespread activations into neuroimaging analyses moving forward.
