---
title: "Network communication models narrow the gap between the modular organization of structural and functional brain networks"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-08-15
excerpt: "A journal article discussing how network communication models elucidate the structural basis of functional systems in the brain."
date: 2022-04-15
venue: "NeuroImage"
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.119323'
citation: 'Seguin, Caio, et al. &quot;Network communication models narrow the gap between the modular organization of structural and functional brain networks.&quot; <i>NeuroImage</i> 257 (2022): 119323.'
---

[Article available from here.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.119323)

## Abstract:

Structural and functional brain networks are modular. Canonical functional systems, such as the default mode network, are well-known modules of the human brain and have been implicated in a large number of cognitive, behavioral and clinical processes. However, modules delineated in structural brain networks inferred from tractography generally do not recapitulate canonical functional systems. Neuroimaging evidence suggests that functional connectivity between regions in the same systems is not always underpinned by anatomical connections. As such, direct structural connectivity alone would be insufficient to characterize the functional modular organization of the brain. Here, we demonstrate that augmenting structural brain networks with models of indirect (polysynaptic) communication unveils a modular network architecture that more closely resembles the brain’s established functional systems. We find that diffusion models of polysynaptic connectivity, particularly communicability, narrow the gap between the modular organization of structural and functional brain networks by 20–60%, whereas routing models based on single efficient paths do not improve mesoscopic structure-function correspondence. This suggests that functional modules emerge from the constraints imposed by local network structure that facilitates diffusive neural communication. Our work establishes the importance of modeling polysynaptic communication to understand the structural basis of functional systems.
