---
title: 'Hello World!'
date: 2020-02-08
permalink: /posts/2020/02/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - notes
  - tutorial
---

In my first blog post ever, I decided to provide a short description of how I prepared this website to be served over Github pages.

## Professional website template

Like many, I had a very limited time and could not afford to spend much time on creating a fully functional professional website from scratch. Hence I decided to look for a website template that is suited to my needs, i.e. an academic website. I was also looking for a low-maintenance hosting service. I basically did not want to have to worry about getting a domain and a server to host my website on. I was able to find a fast solution that suited my needs thanks to Jekyll and Github pages.

If you're also interested in building a personal academic website in a similar fashion this solution may suit you.

Now you would still need to know a little bit about web development to be able to get everything up and running. However, compared to a web development from scratch this is going to be way faster.

Here are the steps that I took:

* I first forked this [fantastic academic website template](https://github.com/academicpages/academicpages.github.io). Please note that a more thorough instruction on how to use the template has been provided in the template's git repository. This blog post is just a short summary of what I did which could act as a teaser for you to go ahead and read their carefully written instrucions.
* I then cloned the repository locally to be able to edit the content and add what I want to the website.
* I then started changing the files as instructed by the template's instructions. You could also take this one step further and build extra features into the existing template if you like.
* In order to serve the website using github pages, you would need to rename the repository to "[your GitHub username].github.io" and enable Github pages from the settings.
* Furthermore, in order to test the changes I make to the website locally and make a bunch of modifications together and push in a single commit, I installed Jekyll and Bundle locally. This made development of the website much easier.

That's all! Believe me it's nearly as simple as that!

I hope you enjoy building your website with [academicpages](https://github.com/academicpages/)' academic website template too.
